Here in this valley of discrete academies  We have not mountains, but mounts, truncated hillocks  To the Adirondacks, to northern Monadnock,  Themselves mere rocky hillocks to an Everest.  Still, they're out best mustering of height: by  Comparison with the sunnken silver-grizzled  Back of the Connecticut, the river-level  Flats of Hadley farms, they're lofty enough  Elevations to be called something more than hills.  Green, wholly green, they stand their knobby spine  Against our sky: they are what we look southward to  Up Pleasant Street at Main. Poising their shapes  Between the snuff and red tar-paper apartments,  They mound a summer coolness in our view.    To people who live in the bottom of valleys  A rise in the landscape, hummock or hogback, looks  To be meant for climbing. A peculiar logic  In going up for the coming down if the post  We start at's the same post we finish by,  But it's the clear conversion at the top can hold  Us to the oblique road, in spite of a fitful  Wish for even ground, and it's the last cliff  Ledge will dislodge out cramped concept of space, unwall  Horizons beyond vision, spill vision  After the horizons, stretching the narrowed eye  To full capacity. We climb to hopes  Of such seeing up the leaf-shuttered escarpments,  Blindered by green, under a green-grained sky    Into the blue. Tops define themselves as places  Where nothing higher's to be looked to. Downward looks  Follow the black arrow-backs of swifts on their track  Of the air eddies' loop and arc though air's at rest  To us, since we see no leaf edge stir high  Here on a mount overlaid with leaves. The paint-peeled  Hundred-year-old hotel sustains its ramshackle  Four-way veranda, view-keeping above  The fallen timbers of its once remarkable  Funicular railway, witness to gone  Time, and to graces gone with the time. A state view-  Keeper collects half-dollars for the slopes  Of state scenery, sells soda, shows off viewpoints.  A ruffy skylight oaints the gray oxbow    And paints the river's pale circumfluent stillness.  As roses broach their carmine in a mirror. Flux  Of the desultory currents --- all that unique  Stripple of shifting wave-tips is ironed out, lost  In the simplified orderings of sky-  Lorded perspectives. Maplike, the far fields are ruled  By correct green lines and no seedy free-for-all  Of asparagus heads. Cars run their suave  Colored beads on the strung roads, and the people stroll  Straightforwardly across the springing green.  All's peace and discipline down there. Till lately we  Lived under the shadow of hot rooftops  And never saw how coolly we might move. For once  A high hush quietens the crickets' cry.
If you dissect a bird  To diagram the tongue  You'll cut the chord  Articulating song.    If you flay a beast  To marvel at the mane  You'll wreck the rest  From which the fur began.    If you pluck out the heart  To find what makes it move,  You'll halt the clock  That syncopates our love. 
Compelled by calamity's magnet  They loiter and stare as if the house  Burnt-out were theirs, or as if they thought  Some scandal might any minute ooze  From a smoke-choked closet into light;  No deaths, no prodigious injuries  Glut these hunters after an old meat,  Blood-spoor of the austere tragedies.    Mother Medea in a green smock  Moves humbly as any housewife through  Her ruined apartments, taking stock  Of charred shoes, the sodden upholstery:  Cheated of the pyre and the rack,  The crowd sucks her last tear and turns away.
In Alicante they bowl the barrels  Bumblingly over the nubs of the cobbles  Past the yellow-paella eateries,  Below the ramshackle back-alley balconies,  While the cocks and hens  In the roofgardens  Scuttle repose with crowns and cackles.    Kumquat-colored trolleys ding as they trundle  Passengers under an indigo fizzle  Needling spumily down from the wires:  Alongside the sibliant narhor the lovers  Hear loudspeakers boom  From each neon-lit palm  Rumbas and sambas no ear-flaps can muffle.    O Cacophony, goddess of jazz and of quarrels,  Crack-throated mistress of bagpipes and cymbals,  Let be your con brios, your capricciosos,  Crescendos, cadenzas, prestos and pretissimos,  My head on the pillow  (Piano, pianissimo)  Lullayed by susurrous lyres and viols.
The smile of iceboxes annihilates me.  Such blue currents in the veins of my loved one!  I hear her great heart purr.    From her lips ampersands and percent signs  Exit like kisses.  It is Monday in her mind: morals    Launder and present themselves.  What am I to make of these contradictions?  I wear white cuffs, I bow.    Is this love then, this red material  Issuing from the steele needle that flies so blindingly?  It will make little dresses and coats,    It will cover a dynasty.  How her body opens and shuts-  A Swiss watch, jeweled in the hinges!    O heart, such disorganization!  The stars are flashing like terrible numerals.  ABC, her eyelids say.
In the Arch\xe6ological Museum in Cambridge is a stone  coffin of the fourth century A.D. containing the skeletons  of a woman, a mouse and a shrew. The ankle-bone of the  woman has been slightly gnawed.    Rigged poker -stiff on her back  With a granite grin  This antique museum-cased lady  Lies, companioned by the gimcrack  Relics of a mouse and a shrew  That battened for a day on her ankle-bone.    These three, unmasked now, bear  Dry witness  To the gross eating game  We'd wink at if we didn't hear  Stars grinding, crumb by crumb,  Our own grist down to its bony face.    How they grip us through think and thick,  These barnacle dead!  This lady here's no kin  Of mine, yet kin she is: she'll suck  Blood and whistle my narrow clean  To prove it. As I think now of her hand,    From the mercury-backed glass  Mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother  Reach hag hands to haul me in,  And an image looms under the fishpond surface  Where the daft father went down  With orange duck-feet winnowing this hair ---    All the long gone darlings: They  Get back, though, soon,  Soon: be it by wakes, weddings,  Childbirths or a family barbecue:  Any touch, taste, tang's  Fit for those outlaws to ride home on,    And to sanctuary: usurping the armchair  Between tick  And tack of the clock, until we go,  Each skulled-and-crossboned Gulliver  Riddled with ghosts, to lie  Deadlocked with them, taking roots as cradles rock.
Spry, wry, and gray as these March sticks,  Percy bows, in his blue peajacket, among the narcissi.  He is recuperating from something on the lung.    The narcissi, too, are bowing to some big thing :  It rattles their stars on the green hill where Percy  Nurses the hardship of his stitches, and walks and walks.    There is a dignity to this; there is a formality-  The flowers vivid as bandages, and the man mending.  They bow and stand : they suffer such attacks!    And the octogenarian loves the little flocks.  He is quite blue; the terrible wind tries his breathing.  The narcissi look up like children, quickly and whitely.
First, are you our sort of a person?  Do you wear  A glass eye, false teeth or a crutch,  A brace or a hook,  Rubber breasts or a rubber crotch,  Stitches to show something's missing? No, no? Then  How can we give you a thing?  Stop crying.  Open your hand.  Empty? Empty. Here is a hand    To fill it and willing  To bring teacups and roll away headaches  And do whatever you tell it.  Will you marry it?  It is guaranteed    To thumb shut your eyes at the end  And dissolve of sorrow.  We make new stock from the salt.  I notice you are stark naked.  How about this suit -    Black and stiff, but not a bad fit.  Will you marry it?  It is waterproof, shatterproof, proof  Against fire and bombs through the roof.  Believe me, they'll bury you in it.    Now your head, excuse me, is empty.  I have the ticket for that.  Come here, sweetie, out of the closet.  Well, what do you think of that?  Naked as paper to start    But in twenty-five years she'll be silver,  In fifty, gold.  A living doll, everywhere you look.  It can sew, it can cook,  It can talk, talk, talk.    It works, there is nothing wrong with it.  You have a hole, it's a poultice.  You have an eye, it's an image.  My boy, it's your last resort.  Will you marry it, marry it, marry it.
There is this white wall, above which the sky creates itself---  Infinite, green, utterly untouchable.  Angels swim in it, and the stars, in indifference also.  They are my medium.  The sun dissolves on this wall, bleeding its lights.    A gray wall now, clawed and bloody.  Is there no way out of the mind?  Steps at my back spiral into a well.  There are no trees or birds in this world,  There is only sourness.    This red wall winces continually :  A red fist, opening and closing,  Two gray, papery bags---  This is what I am made of , this and a terror  Of being wheeled off under crosses and a rain of pietas.    On a black wall, unidentifiable birds  Swivel thier heads and cry.  There is no talk of immortality among these!  Cold blanks approach us :  They move in a hurry.
the slime of all my yesterdays  rots in the hollow of my skull    and if my stomach would contract  because of some explicable phenomenon  such as pregnancy or constipation    I would not remember you    or that because of sleep  infrequent as a moon of greencheese  that because of food  nourishing as violet leaves  that because of these    and in a few fatal yards of grass  in a few spaces of sky and treetops    a future was lost yesterday  as easily and irretrievably  as a tennis ball at twilight
Worship this world of watercolor mood  in glass pagodas hung with veils of green  where diamonds jangle hymns within the blood  and sap ascends the steeple of the vein.    A saintly sparrow jargons madrigals  to waken dreamers in the milky dawn,  while tulips bow like a college of cardinals  before that papal paragon, the sun.    Christened in a spindrift of snowdrop stars,  where on pink-fluted feet the pigeons pass  and jonquils sprout like solomon's metaphors,  my love and I go garlanded with grass.    Again we are deluded and infer  that somehow we are younger than we were.
deep in liquid  turquoise slivers  of dilute light    quiver in thin streaks  of bright tinfoil  on mobile jet:    pale flounder  waver by  tilting silver:    in the shallows  agile minnows  flicker gilt:    grapeblue mussels  dilate lithe and  pliant valves:    dull lunar globes  of blubous jellyfish  glow milkgreen:    eels twirl  in wily spirals  on elusive tails:    adroir lobsters   amble darkly olive  on shrewd claws:    down where sound  comes blunt and wan  like the bronze tone  of a sunken gong.
Stasis in darkness.  Then the substanceless blue  Pour of tor and distances.    God's lioness,  How one we grow,  Pivot of heels and knees!--The furrow    Splits and passes, sister to  The brown arc  Of the neck I cannot catch,    Nigger-eye  Berries cast dark  Hooks----    Black sweet blood mouthfuls,  Shadows.  Something else    Hauls me through air----  Thighs, hair;  Flakes from my heels.    White  Godiva, I unpeel----  Dead hands, dead stringencies.    And now I  Foam to wheat, a glitter of seas.  The child's cry    Melts in the wall.  And I   Am the arrow,    The dew that flies,  Suicidal, at one with the drive  Into the red    Eye, the cauldron of morning.
I ordered this, clean wood box  Square as a chair and almost too heavy to lift.  I would say it was the coffin of a midget  Or a square baby  Were there not such a din in it.    The box is locked, it is dangerous.  I have to live with it overnight  And I can't keep away from it.  There are no windows, so I can't see what is in there.  There is only a little grid, no exit.    I put my eye to the grid.  It is dark, dark,  With the swarmy feeling of African hands  Minute and shrunk for export,  Black on black, angrily clambering.    How can I let them out?  It is the noise that appalls me most of all,  The unintelligible syllables.  It is like a Roman mob,  Small, taken one by one, but my god, together!    I lay my ear to furious Latin.  I am not a Caesar.  I have simply ordered a box of maniacs.  They can be sent back.  They can die, I need feed them nothing, I am the owner.    I wonder how hungry they are.  I wonder if they would forget me  If I just undid the locks and stood back and turned into a tree.  There is the laburnum, its blond colonnades,  And the petticoats of the cherry.    They might ignore me immediately  In my moon suit and funeral veil.  I am no source of honey  So why should they turn on me?  Tomorrow I will be sweet God, I will set them free.    The box is only temporary.
It is ten years, now, since we rowed to Children's Island.  The sun flamed straight down that noon on the water off Marblehead.  That summer we wore black glasses to hide our eyes.  We were always crying, in our spare rooms, little put-upon sisters,  In the two, huge, white, handsome houses in Swampscott.  When the sweetheart from England appeared, with her cream skin and Yardley cosmetics,  I had to sleep in the same room with the baby on a too-short cot,  And the seven-year-old wouldn't go out unless his jersey stripes  Matched the stripes of his socks.    Or it was richness! --- eleven rooms and a yacht  With a polished mahogany stair to let into the water  And a cabin boy who could decorate cakes in six-colored frosting.  But I didn't know how to cook, and babies depressed me.  Nights, I wrote in my diary spitefully, my fingers red  With triangular scorch marks from ironing tiny ruchings and puffed sleeves.  When the sporty wife and her doctor husband went on one of their cruises  They left me a borrowed maid named Ellen, "for protection,"  And a small Dalmation.    In your house, the main house, you were better off.  You had a rose garden and a guest cottage and a model apothecary shop  And a cook and a maid, and knew about the key to the bourbon.  I remember you playing "Ja-Da" in a pink piqu\xe9 dress  On the game-room piano, when the "big people" were out,  And the maid smoked and shot pool under a green shaded lamp.  The cook had one walleye and couldn't sleep, she was so nervous.  On trial, from Ireland, she burned batch after batch of cookies  Till she was fired.    O what has come over us, my sister!  On that day-off the two of us cried so hard to get  We lifted a sugared ham and a pineapple from the grownups' icebox  And rented an old green boat. I rowed. You read  Aloud, cross-legged on the stern seat, from the Generation of Vipers.  So we bobbed out to the island. It was deserted ---  A gallery of creaking porches and still interiors,  Stopped and awful as a photograph of somebody laughing  But ten years dead.    The bold gulls dove as if they owned it all.  We picked up sticks of driftwood and beat them off,  Then stepped down the steep beach shelf and into the water.  We kicked and talked. The thick salt kept us up.  I see us floating there yet, inseparable--two cork dolls.  What keyhole have we slipped through, what door has shut?  The shadows of the grasses inched round like hands of a clock,  And from our opposite continents we wave and call.  Everything has happened. 
Since Christmas they have lived with us,  Guileless and clear,  Oval soul-animals,  Taking up half the space,  Moving and rubbing on the silk    Invisible air drifts,  Giving a shriek and pop  When attacked, then scooting to rest, barely trembling.  Yellow cathead, blue fish---  Such queer moons we live with    Instead of dead furniture!  Straw mats, white walls  And these traveling  Globes of thin air, red, green,  Delighting    The heart like wishes or free  Peacocks blessing  Old ground with a feather  Beaten in starry metals.  Your small    Brother is making  His balloon squeak like a cat.  Seeming to see  A funny pink world he might eat on the other side of it,  He bites,    Then sits  Back, fat jug  Contemplating a world clear as water.  A red  Shred in his little fist.
Empty, I echo to the least footfall,  Museum without statues, grand with pillars, porticoes, rotundas.  In my courtyard a fountain leaps and sinks back into itself,  Nun-hearted and blind to the world. Marble lilies  Exhale their pallor like scent.    I imagine myself with a great public,  Mother of a white Nike and several bald-eyed Apollos.  Insread, the dead injure me attentions, and nothing can happen.  Blank-faced and mum as a nurse.
He was the bullman earlierm  King of the dish, my lucky animal.  Breathing was easy in his airy holding.  The sun sat in his armpit.  Nothing went moldy. The little invisibles  Waited on him hand and foot.  The blue sisters sent me to another school.  Monkey lived under the dunce cap.  He kept blowing me kisses.  I hardly knew him.    He won't be got rid of:  Memblepaws, teary and sorry,  Fido Littlesoul, the bowel's unfamiliar.  A dustbin's enough for him.  The dark's his bone.  Call him any name, he'll come to it.    Mud-sump, happy sty face.  I've married a cupboard of rubbish.  I bed in a fish puddle.  Down here the sky is always falling.  Hogwallow's at the window.  The star bugs won't save me this mouth.  I housekeep in Time's gut-end  Among emmets and mollusks,  Duchess of Nothing,  Hairtusk's bride.
Who are these people at the bridge to meet me?  They are the villagers ---   The rector, the midwife, the sexton, the agent for bees.  In my sleeveless summery dress I have no protection,  And they are all gloved and covered, why did nobody tell me?  They are smiling and taking out veils tacked to ancient hats.    I am nude as a chicken neck, does nobody love me?  Yes, here is the secretary of bees with her white shop smock,  Buttoning the cuffs at my wrists and the slit from my neck to my knees.  Now I am milkweed silk, the bees will not notice.  They will not smell my fear, my fear, my fear.    Which is the rector now, is it that man in black?  Which is the midwife, is that her blue coat?  Everybody is nodding a square black head, they are knights in visors,  Breastplates of cheesecloth knotted under the armpits.    Their smiles and their voces are changing. I am led through a beanfield.    Strips of tinfoil winking like people,  Feather dusters fanning their hands in a sea of bean flowers,  Creamy bean flowers with black eyes and leaves like bored hearts.  Is it blood clots the tendrils are dragging up that string?  No, no, it is scarlet flowers that will one day be edible.    Now they are giving me a fashionable white straw Italian hat  And a black veil that molds to my face, they are making me one of them.  They are leading me to the shorn grove, the circle of hives.  Is it the hawthorn that smells so sick?  The barren body of hawthon, etherizing its children.    Is it some operation that is taking place?  It is the surgeon my neighbors are waiting for,  This apparition in a green helmet,  Shining gloves and white suit.  Is it the butcher, the grocer, the postman, someone I know?    I cannot run, I am rooted, and the gorse hurts me  With its yellow purses, its spiky armory.  I could not run without having to run forever.  The white hive is snug as a virgin,  Sealing off her brood cells, her honey, and quietly humming.    Smoke rolls and scarves in the grove.  The mind of the hive thinks this is the end of everything.  Here they come, the outriders, on their hysterical elastics.  If I stand very still, they will think I am cow-parsley,  A gullible head untouched by their animosity,    Not even nodding, a personage in a hedgerow.  The villagers open the chambers, they are hunting the queen.  Is she hiding, is she eating honey?  She is very clever.  She is old, old, old, she must live another year, and she knows it.  While in their fingerjoint cells the new virgins    Dream of a duel they will win inevitably,  A curtain of wax dividing them from the bride flight,  The upflight of the murderess into a heaven that loves her.  The villagers are moving the virgins, there will be no killing.  The old queen does not show herself, is she so ungrateful?    I am exhausted, I am exhausted ---  Pillar of white in a blackout of knives.  I am the magician's girl who does not flinch.  The villagers are untying their disguises, they are shaking hands.  Whose is that long white box in the grove, what have they accomplished, why am I cold.
